---
layout: project
title: Ez-XBRL Solutions
abstract: ... automating XBRL tag selection using predictive learning techniques.
prose_link:
  http://prose.io/#lucidtechnics/lucidtechnics.github.com/edit/master/_posts/projects/0100-01-04-ezxbrl.md
author_twitter: lucidtechnics
author: Bediako George
image: /images/workers_866_350.jpg
categories:
- projects
published: true
---

Northern Virginia Area Health Education Center (NV AHEC) is a non-profit operation based in Alexandria, Virginia. NV AHEC's charter promises, among other things, to provide top notch interpretation services to area health care providers.

Until recently, hospitals ordered interpreter services from NV AHEC via faxed paper order forms.  This is no longer the case.  For over a year NV AHEC has been enjoying the benefits of cloud computing.  The entire process of collecting orders via fax and manually tallying invoices and payments has been replaced by a modern cloud computing operation.  Interpretation service orders are received via the web, encrypted for privacy, then stored in Google's cloud datastore.  Interpreter assignment has been greatly enhanced by a new interpretation assignment screen, and interpreters are notified by email of their new interpretation gigs.

On the fulfillment side, NV AHEC customers now sign barcoded smart encounter forms that are automatically read by the backend application when submitted via fax.  Verification screens for allow back office users to view, accept, or reject forms based on predefined criteria.  These smart forms form the basis for payments to interpreters and invoices to NV AHEC clients.  The payment and invoice records are automatically written to Google Drive spreadsheets and can be viewed as is, or downloaded and imported into NV AHEC's accounting system.

Lucid Technics is currently exploring ways to improve interpeter scheduling.  We are in the process of providing hints to schedulers as to which interpreters are most likely able to attend a gig.  We are accomplishing this by apply predictive machine learning techniques to the existing order history.

Lucid Technics, using its proven cloud computing technology Airlift, was able to fully automate a manually intensive workflow process for NV AHEC.  Contact us to find out how we can help you streamline your own critical business processes.