---
layout: project
title: Office of Personnel Management
abstract: .. rapid prototyping with Airlift.
prose_link:
  http://prose.io/#lucidtechnics/lucidtechnics.github.com/edit/master/_posts/projects/0100-01-02-opm.md
author_twitter: lucidtechnics
author: Bediako George
image: /images/hard_hats_large.jpg
categories:
- projects
published: true
---

The Office of Personnel Management (OPM) needed a way to securly expose the large amount of the Federal Government employee status information to authorize parties.  Lucid Technics rapidly created a prototype of web services using Airlift, our open source code generator for Google App Engine.  This Airlift prototype demonstrated how such a web service could be constructed to verify the activity status of a government employee.

Due to Airlift's flexible design, the web service was constructed to automatically return data in multiple presentation formats, including JSON and HTML.  Within 16 hours of coding Lucid Technics demonstrated that using code generation coupled with cloud computing, supporting a large volume of traffic was possible at minimal cost to the taxpayer.

The prototype demonstration was a huge success and led to an implementation that used the OPM's existing hardware infrastructure. One of the key considerations for this suite of web services was performance.  Lucid Technics architected the solution, using a high performance NoSQL database called Redis is used as the primary data source.  Redis was chosen for it simple architecture, secure design, and fast response.

Lucid Technics is exploring ways to build on these web services, providing access to more human resources data while still maintaining high performance.

Currently, Lucid Technics is creating data dashboards to demonstrate how to effectively view the large volumes of human resources data using innovative data visualization techniques.  Creating simple visual representations of data is a challenge where there are seemingly streams of unconnected data. Lucid Technics is connecting the dots and presenting stakeholders with visual data that can be used to better understand that large employee data set.