---
layout: project
title: Office of Personnel Management
abstract: ... prototyping the sharing of U.S. Federal Government employee data using Airlift.
prose_link:
  http://prose.io/#lucidtechnics/lucidtechnics.github.com/edit/master/_posts/projects/0100-01-04-opm.md
author_twitter: lucidtechnics
author: Bediako George
image: /images/hard_hats_790_271.jpg
categories:
- projects
published: true
---

The Office of Personnel Management (OPM) needed a way to securely expose the large amount of the Federal Government employee status information to authorized parties.  Lucid Technics rapidly created a web services prototype using Airlift, our open source code generator for Google App Engine.  This Airlift generated prototype demonstrated how web services could be constructed in order to verify the activity status of a government employee.

Within 16 hours of coding with Airlift, Lucid Technics created a cloud based web service capable of supporting large volumes of traffic at minimal cost to the U.S. taxpayer. Due to Airlift's flexible design, the web service was capable of automatically returning data in multiple representation formats, including JSON and HTML.

The prototype demonstration was a huge success and led to Lucid Technics architecting and implementing a solution that used OPM's internal infrastructure.

Lucid Technics is currently exploring ways to build on these web services, thereby providing access to more human resources data while still maintaining security.  Creating a simple means of presenting employee data is a challenge when there are large amounts of loosely connected data. Lucid Technics is currently working on presenting OPM stakeholders with examples of highly visual data dashboard presentations that can be used to better understand that large employee data set.