---
layout: project
title: Northern Virginia Area Health Center
abstract: ... rethinking interpreter scheduling using Airlift and Google Docs.
prose_link:
  http://prose.io/#lucidtechnics/lucidtechnics.github.com/edit/master/_posts/projects/0100-01-03-nvahec.md
author_twitter: lucidtechnics
author: Bediako George
image: /images/workers_866_350.jpg
categories:
- projects
published: true
---

Northern Virginia Area Health Education Center (NV AHEC) is a non-profit operation based in Alexandria, Va. NV AHEC's charter promises, among other things, to provide top notch interpretation service to area health care providers.

Until recently, hospitals ordered interpreter from NV AHEC via faxed order forms.  This is no longer the case.  For over a year NV AHEC has been embracing cloud computing.  The entire manual process of collecting orders via fax and manually tallying invoices and payments has been replaced a modern cloud computing operation.  Interpretation orders are received via the web, encrypted, then stored in Google's cloud datastore.  Interpreter assignment has been greatly enhanced by a new interpretation assignment screen, and interpreters are notified by email of new interpretation gigs.

On the fulfillment side, NV AHEC customers now sign barcoded smart encounter forms that are automatically read by the backend application when submitted via fax.  Screens for reviewing these forms allow back office users to verify their correctness.  These smart forms form the basis for payments to interpreters and invoices to NV AHEC clients.  The payment and invoice records are automatically written to Google Drive's spreadsheet application and can be viewed as is, or downloaded and imported in NV AHEC's accounting system.

Lucid Technics is currently exploring ways to improve interpeter scheduling.  We are in the process of providing hints to schedulers as to which interpreters are most likely able to attend a gig.  We are accomplishing this by apply predictive machine learning techniques to the existing order history.

To wrap up, Lucid Technics, using its proven cloud computing technology Airlift was able to fully automate a manually intensive workflow process.  Contact us to find out how we can help you streamline your critical business process. 